# Yate Experiments

## Overview

This repo documents our experiments with Yate (Yet Another Telephony Engine)

We use a Dockerfile to build a docker image containing yate, sngrep2 and node.js.

The experiments are a few tests (using node.js) controlling yate via [next-yate](https://github.com/0LEG0/next-yate).

I recommend you to follow [learning-freeswitch](https://github.com/MayamaTakeshi/learning-freeswitch)

before experimenting with this.

## Build the image
```
./build_image.sh
```
## Start the container
```
./start_container.sh
```

## Starting a tmux working session
Inside the container do:
```
./tmux_session.sh
```
The above will start a tmux session as specified in tmux_session.yml.

To simplify and focus on our interests, we will have only the modules regexroute, extmodule and tonegen enabled.

## Running tests

In the tmux session switch to window 'tests/functional' and run one of the tests like this:
```
node simple.js
```

Then switch to the window 'sngrep2' and inspect the messages exchanged between the test script and yate.

Also, switch to the window 'yate' and inspect its logs.

To run all tests do:
```
./runtests
```
Obs: however, currently, test subscribe_notify.js is failing (see https://github.com/MayamaTakeshi/yate-experiments/issues/2)

## Testing with baresip

You can use baresip to listen to audio generated by yate.

The module regex route is used to determine how a call should be handled.

It is configuration is at: /usr/local/src/git/yate/conf.d/regexroute.conf 

In it you can see a list of destination number that will just generate tones:
```
MayamaTakeshi@takeshi-desktop:yate-experiments$ grep 9999 /usr/local/src/git/yate/conf.d/regexroute.conf 
^99991001$=tone/dial
^99991002$=tone/busy
^99991003$=tone/ring
^99991004$=tone/specdial
^99991005$=tone/congestion
^99991006$=tone/outoforder
^99991007$=tone/milliwatt
^99991008$=tone/info
```
In my ~/.baresip/accounts I have:
```
<sip:100@test1.com>;auth_pass=001;noreg
```
And to make a call to one of the above numbers I do:
```
baresip -e 'dsip:99991008@0.0.0.0:5060
```

## BeF's Yate Cookbook

Some good tips here:

https://github.com/bef/yate-cookbook


